let's see it what time is it it's 12 I
guess we can kind of get started
cool thanks so much for coming everybody
yeah so I'm gonna talk and we'll we'll
sort of go through this but definitely I
think it's I I definitely was a big fan
of the like learn Python the hard way
we're like you type everything many
times and it sort of goes into your head
a little better as you're like doing
that so today if you have any interest
in doing that feel free to do it with me
but otherwise thank you for coming to a
session on query which is the project
that I work on let's make this sure
let's let's have a presentation
so this is elective course G hopefully
you're in the right room if you're not
we're gonna talk about datasets on the D
Web today I thought we would do a bit of
a blend how many people here are like
into data science would call themselves
data scientists we got two amazing kind
of what I was anticipating right we're
at a do web thing so today I'm gonna
kind of do two things we're going to
show you how data science might be
helpful or at least doing data version
control might be high flow curve you as
a developer and we're gonna talk a bunch
about how query uses ipfs and mainly
sort of focus on those things this is
sort of gear if at any point you are
building on top of IP FS and you want to
stop me and understand how we're doing
something or get more details about
something all of our code is open source
I can link you directly to places in our
code base that would be good for reading
our code is written and go for which I'm
not going to apologize yeah but it's I'm
into it
so with that I think we'll we'll do
we're gonna try and quickly blast
through sort of like a quick overview of
what query is but again taking these
detours to get into ipfs so with that
I'm b5 Brendan on the internet you'll
see me on github as b5 I work on query
we query spell pronounced query spark
URI I will apologize for that yeah it
seemed like a good idea at the time at
the time it was like sequel query kind
of like and it's about questions that
was sort of the vibe but queries about
data sets at the end of the day this is
about versioning
that's an ipfs did sets are kind of our
granular model it's a document that we
like to think about everything we're
going to talk about today is about
sharing versioning moving datasets
around you can come in yeah no okay so
we just to give you like an overview of
a mental model GRU is kind of a new
thing but it's also a combination of all
things we see it as these three things
sort of end together it's a version
control system it is a database and it
appeared their network kind of at the
same time again thinking about all of
this inside of the context of data sets
as your document model so this is like
the technical underpinnings when you're
working with query you just think about
asset so you don't actually like worry
about these things but yeah this is a
very important technical diagram of how
query works
we put blobs on top of IP FS and that's
yes we'll get into and we will explore
exactly how that relationship is
negotiated but that's that's that's all
I got a network on query kind of looks
like this this is a how query is sort of
an overlay network on an overlay network
which is kind of fun and I think a
pattern that you'll see a lot if you're
somebody using lip p2p and so if you
have any questions around that we do
query is a protocol registered as the
Lib p2p multiplex Handler and so we can
talk about that too in details but
anyways with that if you haven't saw the
group binary and you're playing along at
home let's again just as a quick
reminder for anybody coming late I'm
basically gonna blast through this if we
can skip stuff
because we have these I've sort of
outlined things so we get sidetracked
with questions you can come back here
and like check finish they have a
tutorial later and so if we go over time
I don't know folk over time but we can
sort of go through all this but I'm
basically going to talk through these
four sort of steps so the first thing
we're gonna do is just actually do like
our hello world of a data set and so
today we're gonna do all of this from
the command line we do have a front end
but I think it's fun to like since we're
like in particular because we're going
to do a lot of interaction between ipfs
in query it's nicer just sort of do this
all from the command line so I'm gonna
try and make this bigger someone yell at
me if this is like this is a good enough
size or is bigger required
okay good okay cool so if you're playing
along at home and you haven't run query
setup yet this is the one thing to run
you will choose this obviously I'm
getting an error because I've already
set this up
that'll ask you to choose your pure name
that is a human readable name that we
register with a centralized registry of
names but this is very similar to your
github username so choose wisely anybody
make it your query setup are we there
cool we got some thumbs up awesome
so the first thing we to do is just make
a fresh directory and CD to it so I'm
gonna work from my desktop today I'm
gonna make their workshop because I
think I said I would call it workshop
cool and then I'm also gonna open a text
editor I'm a vs code person if you're
some sort of code ninja that's great
use whatever you like I'm gonna close
this out first
cool what am I gonna do here I'm gonna
do this workshop cool yeah sorry
workshop into a new fresh thingy so I
have no files and left I set my text
editor to white and this is really
throwing me off but it's better to see
and so the first thing I'm to do is I'm
gonna go back to that tutorial and just
copy and paste this this in this random
stuff and I'm gonna call this hello dot
CSV cool so you've made it that far we
will notice immediately they're like
this data is like slightly messy there's
an extra comma here and that's that's on
purpose so copy and paste that too and
we'll just get to our first command
we're gonna do query save file or potty
sorry and basically just type this and
I'll explain this in a second but it's
home dot CSV and then I'm gonna type me
slash hello
that's not found where am I yeah demo
hands man
I'm not gonna save body hello that's so
the tab is gonna be my friends today so
all right I have to it's all right I
have to reset this leads cool now this
is what you should see when you run this
you've now if everyone has seen this in
the in the background this is a data set
version has just been created so we're
seeing some familiar stuff for my PFS
land this should look familiar
I'm gonna make this bigger but under the
hood you'll notice that that we've
already picked up a validation error we
didn't provide a schema or anything to
query this is just a CSV file query has
done a bunch of work under the hood to
sort of like try and help us make this
data interpretable the whole point is
you can put really messy data into query
we think you can start you should be
able to start with stuff that's invalid
for almost weird as long as it'll parse
it should go in the types of file
formats that you can put in to query our
JSON CSV SLX xlsx I can never say that
out loud and Seaborg so you can feed
those in you conversion any of those you
can convert to and from any of those
some of those conversions are a little
funkier than others high-dimensional c
war to excel files is not the greatest
thing in the world but it happens so um
just to go through some of the other
arguments that were here this escape
this an argument called body and we call
the actual data and I did a set the body
and so we think about this like an HTML
web page right so we've got the head
which is all these other components and
we'll get into them in a bit and then
the actual data is called the body just
to help us distinguish because like
we're gonna be writing a bunch of stuff
but everything else in a data set is
about the body the body is the principal
subjects generally if if you're thinking
in tabular data most data science occurs
in tabular data but query totally
supports high dimensional data lots of
JSON lots of whatever you want to put in
there definitely just structured data
that is the body cool the thing after
that the me /hello
is the data set name and so this is
there me is a special keyword for
whatever my pure name is and so if I
type me I'm always referring my current
I think my pure name is Fuu and so that
means the I created Fuu slash hello and
if I do marry just to like in front of
this exist I can query log me slash
hello and I see a log that hey cool I
made a dataset this should feel similar
to get but if you're who here has worked
with get awesome good to know your
audience let's let's cut to the chase
query has some differences no staging
area no branches and everything is and
there's a very very different notion of
a repository and we'll get into that in
a bit but the thing to keep in mind here
is when I hit save that just that went
directly from hello CSV it is now
version been stored I can blow away that
CSV file it's stored inside of my PFS in
this hash we'll get into that in a bit
but the next thing I'm gonna do is
because I can blow away that file I'm
gonna just take out that error and add
green here save that file again and I'm
just gonna run the exact same command
query save hello me hello and this time
the dataset error it's gone and if I do
query log if I do create lock the right
way we see then we now everything other
difference we get data set commit
messages are optional we generate for
you automatically a sort of textual
description that is set currently
there's a bug that makes it kind of look
like GAC at this presentation but it's
it's valid stuff and we actually sort of
just take a look at what changed inside
of your dataset and give you a good
description there are a commit
description you can absolutely override
this and when you're doing very
meticulous work where you want to be
leaving a very real audit trail you want
to override those messages right you
want to send titles and you want to
leave a trail of how you did the things
that you're doing but there are
situations where you can actually
automate the updating of datasets we'll
get into later and so having these
automatic commit message generation
means that we don't have to put a human
in middle into that loop if we don't
need to so that's kind of a good start
we now know that the body we can just
quickly explore like I'm gonna review
one other thing we have query yet which
is our way of sort of getting pieces of
it is that if I just do me hello this is
going to show you that there's actually
a lot more going
under the hood when you PMS at CSV file
we inferred a schema and we picked up
that there was a header row we figured
out that the format was CSV we figure
out how many entries were in it we
calculated a checksum for you
we figured out the depth of the graph of
your data so we know that it's a two
dimensional array we know the length of
it in bytes we know we and we tried to
infer that the number is an integer type
because there are no floating-point
values in it
we also inferred a basic visualization
script for you and added that into two
ipfs and all of this has been
intelligently versioned so that as you
change different components in this data
set we'll get into some of these
components this is the structure
component which is created for you
there's always a commit component which
is the actual versioning information all
of that is being stored separately
inside of your IP FS repo and we've been
very careful about the way that that's
arranged so as you're creating new
versions your body data is I'm
duplicating if you're not changing your
body and so for thinking about the
miracle tag graph that's being created
by this if we don't change the body
blocks we're constantly just making new
met commits that are referencing that
same data and so we have a really nice
deduplication factor across all of our
versions if we do change data then we
get new blocks anyways yeah so just to
sort of like round this out I can do
query list and I can now see that I have
datasets that I should have deleted
before but I have foo hello in there
which is good call there everybody so
far so we follow any questions on that
section this is just like super basic
this is how we create datasets this is
basically at this point we have cleaned
a data set quote-unquote we've removed
one validation error but that's sort of
as far as I think we need to go in terms
of the actual like manual data creation
from today questions
yes yes yes oh we're totally clobbering
you're a freak oh yeah I put a note at
the beginning of this saying before we
again trim off any burning copies to my
PFS and this I should have said this out
loud but I can help you on unmess up but
we can actually the next chapter is all
about what query is doing to your IP
best repos so if we can see explicitly
what's happening so this is where things
actually get like modestly interesting
and so for this section I'm just gonna
punch in here I'm going to type query
connects
query Connect is our ipfs daemon we like
the word connect more deal but we'll
notice right off the bat something that
I think is fun to like look at we have
this I'd happened too fast okay well
that was gonna be fun to demo but I'm
gonna open the web app which is if we
can see here it is being hosted at
localhost 2505 if I did 2505 and hit
enter this is our GUI and so we ship
this over IP FS under the hood we have
an IP NS till meet DNS record that is
constantly updated and query checks that
every time it starts and if it sees a
new hash it goes and tries to grab that
and it pins it off it pulls it off to
view Evan pins it and so that's what
we're seeing here it says hey specially
web app all this is rooted web when you
first boot query it will actually just
like put you into this loading screen
like hey we're trying to find your app
just give us a second and think once it
gets it one time then it'll always be
able to revert to at least one version
the web app and it'll continually sort
of hop itself to the next version as it
comes up so it'll unpin the previous one
and pin the latest and just keep your
web app up-to-date for you and I think
this is like a good point to start
explaining my very technical graph of
query blob on top of IP FS repo what's
happening is we have a copy of go ipfs
0.4 dot 21 under the hood imported as a
dependency into the query binary and so
that's why we're computing for the repo
lock if you're running out to have a
statement is something else where you
can't take possession of that lock you
could query also respects everything
about ipfs daemon or a BFS goai BFS as
is so all your go I have s configuration
that all
is in there if you set ipfs path the
environment variable all of that is
respected by query and so the goal is
just to have what query is really doing
it just sort of puppeteering your repo
into doing the things that it thinks are
special and valuable and so when we were
doing query save that was creating a
data set pinning it for you and keeping
that root hash locally when I do query
deletes all that unpinned everything it
doesn't run garbage collection for you
that should be noted for anybody who
wants to clear those blocks up later but
you everything about a data set is
stored inside of a queue of s they're
completely self-contained things so like
a data set actually functions completely
out of band from query itself like the
actual data results is something that
you can look at raw in the gateways and
we'll get into that in a second but
while query Connect is running I'm gonna
open another turnable and just show some
of the like we have some built in sort
of things that allow us to inspect query
peers as well which i think is valuable
for this crowd so if I do query peers
list I see a different thing from normal
so we made the decision to overlay a
second profile identity on top of your
pure ID the reason for this is if I
wanted to move my profile around or have
different multiple IP FS repositories
I'm able to do that and so now I have my
actual pure name is associated with a
profile ID that is separate from my key
pair for our IP FS repo we use your
profile ID to sign commits so every
single commit that you make is signed
with that key pair and that is stored
with IP FS f with queries separately and
so every single commit is attributed to
a person and that is part of your audit
log and nobody obviously thanks to
cryptography its unless you do something
stupid with that key pair or the private
side of that key pair nobody can make
commits that look like you on on query
and so this is very similar to get it
gets verified commits that's just where
we start by to help all commits are
always verified in query so I can list
my career pairs I can also list my ipfs
beers by doing network
at best I see a very different number
right now on 95 at this play we for
debug reasons of oil a long way back we
listed what was in the connection
manager and we should probably take that
out but it's in there we also actually
here's a good example of what we do when
we find where Zeus appears who support
query we talk to the connection manager
and we say hey this peer supports query
and we add this number that is a little
arbitrary right now but it's a hundred
and that basically says hey please hang
on to that connection for as long as
possible
and in our experience that has gotten
better and better over time
Thanks go ipfs team yeah so at that
point I think this is kind of like sort
of what's happening under the hood as as
you can see like there are queries sort
of like layering a couple of techniques
on top of IP FS but we're also whenever
possible dropping into regular ipfs
communication we also have like but we
have some niceties that sort of come up
here I can do a query here is let's do a
list first shirt blue here is connects
blue I can just give the name of a peer
and it'll automatically dive into query
pull out from the address do the linking
to the address book find out what that
latest scene profile ID is and try to
make a connection to them work sometimes
doesn't work all the time it really
depends on how recently you've seen that
peer because we're actually persisting
some of that data and as we know that
changes a lot but if you can figure out
a way to connect you can just give it to
your names and then connected but you
can also just pass in a classic multi
address here too you could do like a p4
blah blah and that will also just
delegate that down into go ipfs for
connections we can also while query is
running because go ipfs is core wet HTTP
api is exposed we can do all of our
usual ipfs commands so ipfs - - api IP
for 127 dot 0 dot 0 dot 1 slash 2 CP /
5001 by default it swap stat of course
it did thank you
yeah so you can still talk to API we
include we also surface everything from
your normal like we try to like Johnny's
your point make it as like seamless as
possible when we do have to lock we
don't want to be a bad citizen of of the
ipfs ecosystem so we still run the web
UI everything about your gateway is
still running under the hood you can
configure pub/sub and pass that down
there's like two arguments that are
special to the go ipfs daemon command
line you can set that inquiry
configuration so that'll get passed down
we have some folks who are using pub/sub
to listen to one query did assets are
created and then orchestrate who
replicates those pins they're well out
ahead of us
they're doing airplane monitoring it's
fun stuff but yeah cool so that's kind
of any questions on that on how that
interaction works I mean I think this is
probably the part where this crowd might
be the more interested in this stuff
anything
right right
so the goal is to have this be as
standard as humanly possible and so
we're keeping this in the end obviously
we had to punch in this API thing I'm
working on that I think we can get
around that bit too but it should behave
exactly the same scope if that's any
deviation from that in our eyes is a
book but obviously we have these other
overlays on top how can you both yeah
and so this is currently a bit of a
limitation of our design like I PMS
daemon and query can act kind of
conflict with each other because they
try to possess the repo lock but yes and
I think there's a number ways we can
also coat start programming around like
the nice thing about the working core
API is we will be able to just take the
HTTP API version of core API and talk to
that right now the only limitation is
like we actually register a stream
Handler with the host which isn't
exposed to us over the Cori API and so
we need to be careful about the way we
do that but I think long term it's
doable I'll just have to figure out a
solution for that
cool awesome we're just blazing through
this let's move on to lesson three which
what are we doing in less than three oh
we're actually gonna get stuff cool so I
thought it would be fun to like actually
look at some data that is so this is
this is different
I mean I'd kill query Connect on the
Left and in this case I'm just gonna
punch in oh yeah let's do this first so
another thing is different we're trying
to run a service that is visible to both
internets so when you publish this is a
peccary io / v v / the p2p note count
our lead this is what you see if there's
no software here this is a website or
web page this is our react for an end
but running in read-only mode and so we
aggressively tried to get you to
download
yeah existing app but this allows other
people to sort of see this see the data
that you're publishing including what
we're plan for this is sort of in the
next quarter is tool and a this is a
react app we're going to render this
server-side and put in everything for
google data set search so you will
actually just as you publish query you
will show up in Google's data set search
which we think is very important so
cross compatibility thing we've
intentionally sort of biased towards the
distributed web the point here is to
surface information to folks who don't
know anything about the web distribution
but you'll notice that on the web app
side of things how can i connect to your
any heard connection sorry on the web
app side of things we we have a
visualization we also have body data so
I can actually see the actual body
information here and this is fine to get
because I'm grabbing this information
for my local ipfs node right this is our
rich information I'm operating on
locally or I'm operating off of the
distributed web there's no load being
placed on some centralized service here
but when query does is we to be able to
actually services information when you
run query publish you are publishing to
our pinning service which is pinning
this data set for you and all we are
keeping is the rod sort of blocks for
you which means that it's also available
on the gateways because we are I can
turn off gray connector right now and do
I have you ever said I o slash this
thing and we're gonna see something
different awesome this and so query also
includes a component called
visualization and so visualization
allows us to give HTML documents that
template in anything from the data set
you want and so in this case we're
templating in the node count and word
the HTTP gateways are smart enough to
see a file in you know UNIX fSV one
called index.html and we thought well
hell if we have visualizations and we
have data why don't we just show you the
visualization right on the thing so this
is we're looking at a raw ipfs hash
right under the hood we have body JSON
the data is there look at it oh my god
yeah we'll get into that in a minute but
we can also sort present this vis which
i think is really an important point to
get at everything
query dentists that is a document this
is not a history we're looking at a
single version of something in a single
point in time it is completely
self-contained and it's giving us this
like thing that we can show to HR or
whatever right it's something that is
sort of more palatable but this is a
completely self-contained auditable data
set all the ingredients you need to
understand this data set are in that
merkel bag and we've carefully arranged
it so that every single great data set
is set up the exact same way which means
that every single crate is that can be
interpreted the same way if I can
convert the body of any query data set
to JSON because it's always going in the
exact same way I can compare bodies from
every any to query data sets because
they're always the same way I can
extract the meta title from everything
because query will only let you put
metadata in the meta section right so
we're very strict document model at the
top level very loose document model for
the actual data set and so this is just
like high charts like basic HTML but
this is actually the reason most recent
node count which is this undulating
pattern of the total number of nodes is
like an interesting thing and so we'll
get into that to get into this why don't
we get this data set so I can like go in
here and then say hey this is this is
something I want I'm just gonna copy
paste the end of this I'm gonna turn so
I'm you guys connect your query connects
us off oh my god it confuses all the
time I'm gonna type query add I'm gonna
punch this in so I'm not my note is not
on right now right so there's what
happened is because I'm not connected
we've got to think we're thinking about
data scientist right we're not thinking
about like Puritanism of of like where
you're fetching from so because you
weren't connected at that time it just
said hey we're gonna go get this from
the registry and so that desync thing
that we just demonstrated yesterday is
how we did the pull from the HTTP query
gateway that fetched 20 blocks and put
that sync that locally when that
conversation happened we sent just said
hey we want this and because we have
knew nothing about it it sent everything
to us if we were smarter about it or we
said it's Eid we would actually generate
a manifest and send that back and it
would only send us back the blocks that
we need
but now I have this locally so I can do
queer LS and I have this all of this
data locally and if I do Prairie Connect
and look load this up on my machine now
on localhost oh what did we do to beat
daily or hourly this one cool I can now
actually get at the body data right and
this I think this is the the thing that
we really want to push people towards is
like if we use the distributed
techniques this this entire exchange is
like fine right like this is free to use
because it's the distributed web so the
cost of moving this around why aren't
you looking come on demo gods come on
there we go twice is nice and I think
this is really important to sort of like
surface like in this visualization we
have one part of the total number of
nodes and this is just such a common
occurrence in data science like look at
all of this data under the hood like we
have every like this episode of metrics
is breaking out every single registered
version of that is on the network so
this is every node version that we're
seeing and so like and we have
timestamps like this data is far more
interesting than what is being shown in
that single graph visualization that you
were seeing and so when it's also very
important to note that when we rank
query ad we only got a single version of
that dataset we did not fetch the entire
history this is different from get write
get you do get clone there is what's the
flag for clone only the most recent
there's thank you clone shallow nailed
it this is effectively kicked clone
shallow features that will be coming
forth in the next little while or some
way to see the stuff that you don't have
currently we don't have that in but yeah
so with this data like we can now sort
of pop over to I'm gonna turn this off
again because I'm constantly turning it
off and on but I'm gonna do queried yet
and I'm gonna pass it a filter that's
gonna say just give me the body this
time because when I do query get me live
b2b node counts
hourly and I love we were doing daily
right yeah what
hold on
marilla's
that's correct oh yes because I'm not 55
great yet oh my gosh
cool let's do hourly cuz that's
reporting so if we see this is actually
just showing us the actual like sort of
head content of a data set so we're
seeing the like description words of
stuff I want to get the body so I'm
gonna do very cat body and this time I'm
just gonna copy paste because I don't
wanna get that wrong again cool this
this is actually gonna show the body
data ok neat that's not super useful
let's convert that to CSV and pipe that
to our lead CSV that's not a pipe but
you know what I mean and then if we look
at our lead CSV we can now open this up
in some other program and what's
important here is like people who are
doing data signs really need a high
degree of interoperability so you can be
working there is a Python package for
query that allows you to talk directly
to this from super notebooks and so you
can be like ok give me this data set at
this version and it's just loading as a
panda's data frame into your super
notebooks for when you want to do super
our core data science but in this
example we want to do some baseline
analysis so I'm just gonna like click
this column and if we look down here we
get some like basic analysis lokay the
average number of nodes connected is 96
thousand eight hundred and twenty-two oh
my gosh that's a high number and we can
start start to analyze these date stamps
and look at this and whatever sort of
format that we need and so I think
that's a really I just want to point
this out that with gray our goal is to
be interoperative tools as possible and
being able to sort of use this in as
many contexts as you like as programmers
or people who provide primarily doing
dev work the place where I use square
the most in my day-to-day dev stuff is
whenever I'm like doing stuff it's
around like golden files are trying to
understand like output of something we
can use queries diff tools to sort of
like deal with a highly structured JSON
and sort of like understand what's
changing between a couple of versions
often and we'll sort of just like take
our test Suites API output and just slam
that into a data set and say cool let's
just like see how that looks we'll check
it I'll check in on it every sort of
month or two whatever
and just dip that to see okay how much
is things changed not really part of our
test suite but we often do a lot of just
like basic analysis of like how much
data are we spending a PI on what's
what's her off elope look like it's like
it's just a nice way to sort of analyze
stuff and then by keeping that this
one's native format JSON but like I
think it's worth pointing out that like
this also combines very nicely with
existing tools so we can start to Jake
you into this like crazy and get
whatever we wanted from so slicing and
dicing there are ways to get multiple
bodies of data at the same time we can
chain that together we won't go into
that too much today cool and so that's I
think why we pause there for a second
anybody you have any questions on that
so far into the visualization to present
yeah let's check let's see more in
section four on automation well
hopefully will give you the proper
answer I'll revisit that in a second
mm-hmm so the registry is okay yes so
every query configuration defaults to
registry query do as being the registry
you can turn that off you can say I want
to go hard mode I want to go fully
decentralized and I don't want to submit
to any registry the registry will behave
differently in relation to you but just
the registry that means that when you
try to do query adds you now need to be
running quickly connects and it will
pull it from the D web instead we find
that in the office the do you have often
winds mainly because we have five
computers that are all constantly
running notes and they tend to fetch
from each other faster than we can
actually we basically just put the
registry in the D web into a race every
time you run query ad and so it's like
really fun to see when something wins
but if the data set is inside of our
office it almost always beats it from
HTTP which is like a fun how do you deal
with the dynamic nature of stuff so the
query protocol actually has a way of
syncing to head so you can fetch a
reference over live p2p requests and so
under the hood gray will handle that for
you so if I run a great connected I run
query ad and the registry is down or off
it will go do a it'll send a message out
to any pair that's any query for that's
connected to and that will sort of
bounce around and if any as soon as
somebody has the latest you'll get a
couple messages about latest and then
query will make a decision about what
the smartest offers latest was if the
peer with the pure ID that matches the
thing you're looking for gives you an
answer then it's considered
authoritative and so there's like a
whole conversation there
so want to get to that if you want to
work on that RFC with us I would be
delighted that's private data and access
to encrypted data and access control are
our goals for the end of the year being
able to say hey this is a data set it's
encrypted I only want this person be
able to read the body this person can
edit the meta that's very much on a road
map if that answers your question but
sadly not right now and right now is the
only thing that care about yeah is that
up yeah cool yeah so yeah
oh sorry logic and ooh what's stored in
the Merkel dag
totally totally yeah so the schema
design for query is based on JSON schema
which supports something called annotate
collection annotation and so that is
often where we do the majority of our
data dictionary annotation work that's
obviously meant for humans that's not a
semantic mapping or an ontological
mapping which I think you're referring
to basically if I had two data sets and
this one was in per capita and this one
was individuals can query just
automatically no to multiply that by a
thousand is that what you're asking
did are you am i paying you is because
let's go let's maybe I can answer that
question right now yeah so let's talk
about automation all right this is
actually the next I what I think is our
magic sauce so we've embedded a
programming syntax into query which is a
Python like touring in complete sandbox
language that allows you to automate
going from one version of data set to
another am i close cool we'll see thank
you I'm looking forward to the
improvements of this so today we're
gonna do something really really drop
that simple we are going to ideally
answer Johnny crunches question and get
close ish at the same time so I'm gonna
make a new file and this is gonna be
called download dot star so that star
stands for star lark star lark just for
a bit history came from Google's basil
build system this is what they use to
automate builds intentionally they
wanted it to be touring and complete and
everybody inside of Google really liked
Python data scientists really liked
Python this is we get a lot of questions
why no webassembly
data science is why but so what we have
here is a function that will or a
serious crypt that will be called when
we go to save this data set and there
are two magic functions that when you
define them query knows to call them for
you the first one is called download and
the second one is called transform in
download you get something called a
context which if you want to pass
configuration to the transformation or
API secrets you can pass the secrets
here and but most importantly you are
not actually passed the data set which
is this des the data set is the thing
that you edit to make differences you
can blend manual and automated
transformations between in the same
commit
query make sure that those wires don't
ever cross as a concrete example you can
make a commit that updates the metadata
of something manually but uses a script
to change the body and we find this
really helpful for when you're like when
you get into sort of like doing deep
cleaning work it's really nice to sort
of we have these yellow files that line
up
okay this is my commit message I'm very
ready to do this I'm gonna set this
metadata and then I'm gonna run a bunch
of code and so in this case we're doing
something very very simple we're gonna
construct an example mainly to show the
automation side of this this is going to
be an example that just checks the
latest version of JSF BFS it's gonna be
a dataset that just says we're gonna go
ping the github API and ask for its
releases we're gonna get the JSON of
that response and then we're gonna take
the first thing in that response we're
gonna pray that Jes ipfs has at least
one release otherwise this code is gonna
break but I think we're gonna be okay
the next thing we're gonna do is when
that function returns it's placed in a
special place it now download is always
called before transform and download is
the results of the download function
whatever you return is passed into the
CTX as this dot download value so you
can put whatever you want you can pass
back two polls you can pass back two
objects here whatever you need to and
this will be passed in transform step
your HTTP access is only turned on
during the treant the download call so
you can only access the Internet
here you can only access the D web in
the download step so you have to do all
of your data collection first and then
when you're done we flip off all of your
net access and then we flip on your
access to your local data sets and for
this with this is eventually setting us
up for encrypted data so that if you are
ever touching a private data set query
is automatically making sure that you
can't write stuff that is just like a
little bit malicious right because we
don't want to be doing HTTP posts in
here of our data to some server just as
like a security precaution right we've
intentionally sort of taken a slightly
more strict approach than javascript or
other sort of like sandbox environments
mainly cuz we don't know how that's
gonna work yet we've had a number of
debates internally but so I'm gonna say
this is download dot star and while
we're at it I'm also gonna include a
visualization mainly to answer Johnny
Carson's questions so this is a
visualization this is literally just
HTML templating but in this case we have
a special thing here called all body
entries we intentionally put this in
because you want to be careful with this
this is templating all of your data set
data into a data set you can iterate
over this instead of doing this which
would be smarter
so you have to use Jeff we're trusting
that you're gonna do this the right way
but hey it's your own it's your own foot
gun knock yourself out
but in this case we do template HTML and
save that and then I'm gonna go over
here and I'm gonna make sure that yeah
cool and I'm gonna go query is save and
this guy's going to pass two files in
fast file download dot star and file
templates dot HTML and I'm gonna do me
yes I'd be best latest release and so
now Corey's gonna kind of snap in action
to do different stuff this time it now
picked up on that transform step for
that download script for that out
Starlog transform script and called the
functions for me in law in order if I
didn't define a download function you
wouldn't see the little wonderful
satellite emoji and if you're running on
Windows you're just gonna see white X's
which is frustrating but yeah so it ran
the transform and generated a new data
if we do query get body on this data
yeah we can see that it's actually the
github response cool and so we can also
do a query kinetics and check this so
again I haven't published this so this
is only local but if I do local hosts
what 5001 this thing
I thought side yeah it always blows my
mind
let's try idea T nope
so the current version is this okay cool
so now what we have important step we
actually in that inside of that if we do
query yet on this one and we make the
screen show up properly no oh no paste
so we have a tool called query used but
we're considering taking it out but I
can basically do this I can do query use
this and then I no longer need to copy
and paste an accoustic very good mm-hmm
it's stateful I don't know but the as we
can see here we had we not have a
transform embedded into this and the
script is actually saved along with it
so what we've done now is we've bound a
script that teaches query how to update
itself to the data set so at any given
point I can do I can do the hard way and
I can do queries save recall TF if I
wanted to go back to transform scripts I
can do that but I'm just gonna do this
and you me yes I have s latest release
and this is gonna run it and it's gonna
sit cool right so it's just rewriting
everything and checking the only reason
this saves is because there's a bug that
removes the visualization if you don't
provide it again this is myself I'm just
gonna do this really quick ignore this
well it's great okay cool neat so now
query knows how to update our dataset
for us which is helpful and it also the
other thing to note here is because
we've bounded the script to the dataset
itself as part of the audit trail and so
if someone ever wanted to check my code
and wanted to know hey did you multiply
that column by a thousand or did you
change this by this did you forget are
you dividing by some weird
floating-point number that's part of the
data set and that's worth a lot to
people who are doing data auditing right
and we have we have a very very very
explicit understanding of what happened
we're not going to go into it today but
query data sets can depend on other data
sets which means you can build
dependency trees where you can load a
data set grab its data combine that
produce
new thing query well under the hood
record the exact versions that you ran
all of that script app and is aware of
when those datasets change their history
and can tell you to rerun your
downstream dataset and so for people who
do data science and who do aggregation
of stuff this is like a valuable thing
we have one last problem we don't know
when JSI BFS is gonna come up with a new
version so we're in this situation we
could bend over backwards and like set
up a web hook and we could like get
really deep into like some sort of
custom solution for that problem or we
could do it the distributed way the
decentralized weight I'm gonna just run
it from my machine so query has one last
trick that I wanna show you today which
is create update query update is a
basically a cron daemon that is running
on your machine that allows you to say
go check this for updates rerun that
transform scripts at some interval and
so I'm gonna run this command for a
update service start so I do have to
turn on the service we do want you to
this is now it's important note we're
not running out two FS in the background
when this is happening this is just a
loop that is checking hey do we have any
updates to run no run off and that's
that's it so this thing eats like
roughly 6 Meg's of memory on my machine
it's not it is very quiet so this is
registered with your operating system I
apologize this only works on OS X Linux
is coming like in a week but now I can
do query update service status cool it's
running and this is coming back we can
configure this to be resource
constrained and so if we want to make
sure that we don't blow up our own
computers we can do that but I can now
do query update schedule me J s at BFS
Oh God latest version and then I'm gonna
pick a periodicity this is you probably
haven't seen this syntax like before but
this is repeat for a period of a
timestamp of one minute it's not the
greatest if you use the UI to do this
it's way less painful but what no 3ls
runs not great at remembering his own
thing right now great update schedule
this rt1 cool cool and so if we now do
query update list in two minutes this is
gonna run and so that's gonna sit in the
background of my machine and just hang
out the nice thing about version control
systems is now we know what the current
state of the world is and so we know
that JSF EFS is currently at 0.36 dot
one and when this runs that transform
per trip is going to execute and if the
value of the body is or if the output of
that data set is the same query will not
create a new version it'll instead just
record that it checked and keep the
output of that terminal for me and what
that allows you to do is I'm not gonna
get new stuff if there's no new stuff
and if there is new stuff it'll capture
for me and tell me as soon as I found it
this is gonna run locally on my machine
and produce an immutable hash that I can
distribute across wherever so I'm
calling this a fog service we'll see if
that sticks but I think this is a fog
service I think that if all of our
machines were passively doing some of
this data set mining work and we were
then publishing that up we've got some
foggy data it's really good I'm like all
about it because my machine I currently
administer like roughly 50 data sets
this way and it's so like just every day
I wake up ah you know if we flip over to
my every polite inquiry update vlog it's
just like we do similar to CI where we
just append an increasing integer for
every time it ran read for something
broke
gray for no changes to save and then
green for we actually got a new version
if at any point I want to see the
terminal output of this I can just do
this very update blog lamb and that's
that is the the terminal capture of what
happened when that update right and so
if the other thing you can do here is
you can not just scheduled query data
sets themselves which only allows you to
get it start our transformations
you can schedule shell scripts which
allows you to integrate all kinds of
other stuff you so you can say hey like
the Libby to be note count that we were
seeing before that shell script looks
like this let's show you that for reals
this that's my screen is much smaller
than it's hard to see here cool so let's
do this note count daily yeah here's the
shell script that does this one and so
this is this is actually a shell script
that punches into kubernetes does a port
forwarding to 9090 for me so that i can
see a local prometheus instance which
allows me to then run a giant transform
script that pulls data out of Prometheus
converts it to tabular form slams it
into query and gives me the latest data
so that just runs every day on my
machine and publishes every day and so
that data I you will think oddly there's
some consequences to this you will see
moments where the update doesn't run
it's because my laptop was closed and
then you know you'll get the update six
hours off the schedule
but it works and it runs and you get
because we have this shell script
integration you can do lots of really
fun stuff where in this case we're just
calling query save in here once and then
we're killing the proxy and closing out
so you can imagine all the things you
can integrate here right
connect your database flip something to
some sort of output gem that into query
version it close everything down and
you're done if you're very good at
managing your exit codes query can sort
of give you back the right error message
and tell you want something broke when
something didn't break yeah
and so it's that's just to show you what
might like this
no dump sorry updating list so this is
I'm only doing four things at the moment
but on our machine back at work I've got
that list is very long it's nice to just
see some sort of running in the
background any questions on that we're
clearly about to have lunch all like the
diff yeah okay let's get into this very
diff is the algorithm is done mesh the
visualization of it is terrible but I
think I can do I think I've still
unpretty used on this thing yeah yeah
so queried if by default compares the
data set top to the what are we
comparing the most recent version to the
latest because I'm running query use I'm
just doing the JSF BFS one in this case
it's a mighty very different aura T the
time nothing changed right and this is a
very valuable thing this is different
from UNIX diff UNIX diff compares lines
of text and does shingling values for
longest common substring on lines query
is comparing structured data and so if
you have high dimensional data that is
very intricate it is we have an
algorithm I'll show you the thing is I
think it's fun to look at you know calm
cry out deep diff this is what this
allow you to do is compare in linear
time things that are highly structured
so this works really well in geo JSON
that's the one we're just like rips but
it's nice because if you're like sub
trees are similar you will it will show
up as matching and we'll use that to do
different work where we need some work
is we actually have to like get better
at the actual visualization of this it's
been hard for us to get our heads around
the fact that you if you want to you can
visualize moves so you can actually show
movement of stuff and then we're also
trying to figure out how to visualize
column switches which is like a fun than
a math
but yeah that's that's on the on the
roadmap hopefully that answers your
question okay why don't we do it after
yeah I'm nervous I'm not I'm not typing
very well today he's not going but yes
I'll totally shows that yeah and so this
is ideally sort of like adding up to
something hopefully you can sort of see
the long term goal here we've sort of
made in this case we made the our the
like the hourly note count is now going
to just be available to you to operate
on we can also also prep to one other
data set that I think is fun b5 if you
know GI Joe IP is it hopefully this is
right no sorry one second Ellis how's it
there sorry
ohmygosh careerconnect let's just do
this
let p2p nodes by country here we go so
this is testament to great open source
there so this is what we can see this is
a scan of all of the publicly diable
addresses that we have our scraper has
seen on the DHT over the last six months
do you duplicated suggest the uniques so
we can see what we were publicly able to
dial and so this is I can actually get
you this properly on the if we just do
app decorated i/o this should be
published let's make sure cool it is
there but if we get in here like we can
see some fun stuff like this traditional
station is hilariously weighted like in
the sense that so we've got nine
thousand five hundred and twelve unique
IPS available in the US and then five
thousand twenty six in China it looks
like nobody else is ever connecting but
if you mouse over these like there's
seven hundred easier and twelve hundred
like visualization tuning it's an art
form but I'm clearly I'm not doing an
ear look at Australia
it's like three hundred eighty two
uniques but like some of these get
really fun like yeah like 20 ninety from
Argentina Brazil 155 it's worth noting
that this is in no way this is where you
got to know your data right this is in
no way the total set of people who have
connected ipfs this is only publicly
dialable IP addresses this is like very
good stuff to know yeah one percent I I
owe this to you because this is ipfs
made a geoip b-tree thing this is Ollie
and wand back in the day I ran that to
actually geo code these and my
contribution back is going to be to
update that - but yeah we totally have
that in there you can totally have this
you could run query ad right now if you
wanted and this would go to your machine
yeah that's offline problems
yes yeah if they were actually terrible
but hey yeah that's that's the thing we
help you with we layer a naming system
on top but looking into this data yeah
Harper son I think the thing we're gonna
do we're realizing that hTML is just too
much work and so we're gonna build in
like a standard visualization library
and that I think is just got to come so
if anybody has any interested in like
standard of visualization libraries
again we do everything over as rfcs so
everything on query is RS I'm gonna go
to this and shamelessly promote this
repo this is where we do all the
technical road mapping for query so you
can see what we're gonna do in how it's
gonna work in you can see all the work
that we have been delivered yet which is
growing all the time
[Music]
yeah we've based this off the rust RFC
system which I'm a big fan of as you can
see there yeah so this is geo-located
this is all basically what's
off-the-shelf ipfs projects so this is
using the same system that is happening
inside of webview is geo coder but it's
been applied to the 51 thousand unique
addresses i could find and yeah it's
kind of fun to see them but a study of
that over time is really interesting we
start to intersect that over time but
the point here is like I've done this
work for you as long as you trust me
when you have an audit trail to trust me
you don't have to trust me if I do my
job right and I annotate this data right
the munging work is done which means you
have more time for analysis which means
you have more time to publish cool
back to this thing right and that's
that's the only ask here is like if you
get a day does that give it a set you
know it's like a nice karmic cycler
maybe not one-to-one well I don't know
let's go like 10:00 to 1:00 or something
but yeah that kind of covers the gamut
but we have lots of stuff we want to
improve we're gonna turn this into
github for data so your pull requests
are coming here we got to figure out how
we're gonna make that work decentralized
eventually hard problem
but yeah any major questions there is
the geocoding is hold or you did have
you actually been public from Norway at
some point right now her data is
inaccurate shot to the heart yeah
so we've let's look at the note count
total if we look at the it's like yeah
this is hourly yeah this is our lease so
like 96 thousand notes so there are more
presently more notes connected than we
have public addresses for and so like
that's a confusing like ever like so
this this geoip one is fifty one
thousand addresses from the last six
months of looking at the network right
this is yes always does it know this
relativize is it actually I think this
because it's JavaScript this will load
in my own time zone but the date stamps
themselves are stored in GMT
mm-hmm
hmm sorry what was the name of the
project cackle oh yeah yeah sorry
I've accents my accent yeah Kangol yeah
I think I was like 'full I think it's
centralized and it drives me nuts
for the actual damage data schemas
totally 100% that's the goal it's like
hey that's wrong and I know why and I'm
an expert because how soon do you want
to be like now okay yeah we'll get some
more people on the team to do it that's
definitely where we want to go the big
challenge I think is like for us we
wanted to get our primitives right
really like it's taken us three years to
build out something that functions in
the distributed context that for us has
the performance characteristics that we
think are important I didn't run for it
published but like publishing stuff back
is relatively straightforward all right
up here for ALS again sorry yeah no I'm
somehow if somebody else let's publish
this so like this is our version of git
push demoing this live is always fun is
there oh there's another node running
the background so it doesn't pipe over
things that don't work so that pushed
over a hinge and this is now putting the
data this is happening over HTTP because
that's falling back but we wanted
everything to work consistently and we
wanted everything to it needs to be git
and github grade good IP FS is the right
primitive to do that on ipfs doesn't eat
your data this is so fun to operate on
locally I can't tell you how much fun it
is to work so I'm out doing a number of
projects with this where I'll be working
to combine like 13 different data
sources into one aggregate and having
all of that in my local IP FS repo that
is behaving snappily enough that I'm
like literally just doing select across
10 dataset s-- piping that to JQ & then
spitting that out into some query and
writing that back is the data set all in
one command it's just like really clean
and fun and exciting to work on and it's
nice to have this like peace of mind
that my data is organized and in a place
that is very simple to push to people
right we really wanted that such a
situation where if you're in a lab
environment and
in the same room I don't want to go I
mean I'm preach to the choir here but I
don't want to go me s3u I want to go
meet you right and that's what we have
which i think is very nice
now we got to get to the social side of
things with like I think the thing that
we need the most work on is UX and
trying to understand how to start
tackling the pull request E issue filing
style features of this so where I'd like
to go yeah we're like really really
hoping to sort of try this as a
community oriented projects and be very
use case true
we've learned a lot talking to data
scientists in different fields we've
been talking to people in the financial
space in the geospatial space and the
environmental space generally those are
the biggies that we talk to so if you
have other types of data that you're
working with right sorry yeah wrong time
to ask that question but but yeah I
think that there's a massive amount of
potential here right we've decoupled the
cost of adding data to the network
you're paying with your hard drive and I
think that's a really exciting thing
query there's just a like point to some
of the niceties like if you try to push
more than 500 megabyte dataset Chicago
AG intensity like we don't accept this
at all if you try to push it more than
one gig data set to query we're gonna
say we don't accept this you should run
a note right and that's a different
statement which means I can host
whatever I want I can host Landsat if I
want to and that's an exciting thing and
I think that's we'll keep it up copy on
the registry we'll still surface the
metadata on app deck word at i/o and so
someone can see the ash and get the most
recent version and then they can use
your appearance sort of crap that gigs
and gigs of data so I'm excited that
this exists now I think it's fun but
yeah I think that was kind of it yeah
no such thing
what's your what's your funding how do
we make money yeah
hotter percent yeah and I'm you know I
appreciate ya but like at the end of the
day people gotta be working on this yeah
totally we ever venture back startup
we're gonna be around for many years I'm
not gonna tell you how many because it's
getting longer yeah like a minimum of
four minimum at four it's I actually
after this week we've had some great
stuff happening and so I'm not worried
but so we're fed your backs the way we
plan I'll tell you the way we plan to
make money is eventually we're gonna
spin up query cloud where you can put
your encrypted data on our servers and
give us five bucks a month or something
some number don't quote me on the five
bucks but some number and then the main
place where you plan to make money is
white letting this entire thing into
enterprises and so will run private
networks for larger companies who want
all of this internal yeah so that allows
us to license this some of the GPL and
mean it all of our other our
sub-packages or MIT mainly so that if
others want to use it
there's no copy left preventing you from
that but yeah we mean it we're not going
anywhere but we are we do want to do
this open in the right way cool any
other questions
thanks for yeah
sort of described like development
mm-hmm
yeah yes and so we can actually this
hasn't shipped yet but we under the hood
have sorry one second query manifest
there's a crate dag now hold on it's a
hidden command the we can do dips of
blocks and so we can take two manifests
and say hey what's the block
differential in size differential
between these two versions and so we're
planning to eventually give that to us
hey this is your deduplication factor
across these versions we should drop
this version right that kind of thing is
like very much something that we need
when you're managing large amounts of
data inside of a block store you need to
know what that is and so that's a
different type of diff from the actual
data right that's dipping the
persistence layer not that
mm-hmm yeah yeah yes which is gonna
wreck your whole tree right because
every commit references previous to
commit
yeah we're basing is the thing that we
haven't like gone into yet particular
because you put the transform script
stuff in we had this like moment of like
oh no we've made for a long term
nightmare when they go to rebase because
we have to figure out how do we replay
transformation scripts when like
potentially the source HTTP changed and
so we're like thinking about archival
visit for now what we do a lot when
we're managing massive amounts of data
is just really manage the versions and
like basically get commit amend and like
week eventually we'd like to get into a
situation where you do like a light
commit where you're just keeping the
hashed results and then sort of drop in
the body right and then basically just
doing that to the most recent commit and
then adding the body to the first of
this second most recent commit and out
of the body to the the full so you're
always having the full data set at head
within your just only putting a light
reference to history behind that so
that's in progress RFC's
mmm no I really want to get to that I've
been talking about with Peter Brown
about it I think that there's some like
very exciting stuff to do there we've
played with the Raiden chunker in the
hood I mean just whatever you have yeah
the current Chucky strategy works for us
as like a great starting point we want
to develop the block dipping thing first
and then start tuning our chunking out
with them I wanted to do semantic
trucking for awhile and I've now been
convinced not to do that
this weekend so we'll see how that goes
but I think chucking is the real next
that and like thinking about how can
these schemas become some sort of AI PLD
thing we're now datasets are aware of
how they intersect an overlap is are the
two exciting things here but that's a
big conversation at bare minimum we're
gonna try to do set intersection of
schemas so like we know that this
schemas entropy is a subset of this
schema so we can tell you hey we can
smash this stuff together we don't know
if it's semantically meaningful you
could do that right now
but like yeah if we want to eventually
get to like joints that are natural and
easy but one thing at a time
cool it's a helpful thanks everybody
you've really sat through
[Applause]